# Containers

- **Tasks**
  - A task contains one or more (max 10) containers.
  - Applications are defined using **task definitions**.
    - You can apply a single IAM role to a task definition.
    - Other task definitions include: *Which docker images*, *CPU/memory*, *whether containers are linked*, *networking mode*, *ports that should be mapped/opened*, *whether task should continue if container finished or fails*, *commands to execute when container is started*, *environment variables to pass*, *data volumes*.
  - A task definitions can have two **launch types**:
    - **EC2** (original): Runs ECS on user-provisioned EC2 instances
      - Requires installation of **ECS Container Agent**
      - Included in the Amazon ECS optimized AMI
      - Can also be installed on any EC2 instance that supports the ECS specification
    - **Fargate**: Runs ECS tasks on AWS provisioned compute (serverless)
  - **Scheduling tasks**
    - **Service scheduler** for long-running stateless tasks and applications.

- **ECS Clusters**
  - Logical grouping of container instances that you can place tasks on.
  - Clusters can contain tasks using BOTH the Fargate and EC2 launch type
  - Each container instance may only be part of one cluster at a time
  - Clusters are Region-specific.
  - For tasks using the EC2 launch type, clusters can contain multiple different container instance types.
- Made of:
  - **EKS - Elastic Kubernetes Service**
    - Running ECS on AWS-powered Kubernetes (running on EC2)
  - **ECR - Docker Container Registry**
    - Hosted by AWS
    - Store, managed and deploy your containers on AWS
    - Fully integrated IAM & ECS
    - Sent over HTTPS (encryption in flight) and encrypted at rest
    - ECS pulls from ECR with IAM role, while CodeBuild pushes images (CI/CD) to ECR.
- IAM security and roles at the ECS task level
- **Docker**
  - Containers are isolated from each other
  - Control how much memory / CPU is allocated to your container
- **Use cases**
  - Run microservices
    - Ability to run multiple docker containers on the same machine
    - Direct integration with Application Load Balancers
  - Run batch processing / scheduled tasks
    - Schedule ECS containers to run on On-demand / Reserved / Spot instances
  - Migrate applications to the cloud
    - Dockerize legacy applications running on premise
    - Move Docker containers to run on ECS
- **Concepts**
  - **ECS cluster**: Set of EC2 instances
  - **ECS service**: Applications definitions running on EC2 cluster
- **Security**
  - **ECS IAM roles**: Roles assigned to tasks to interact with AWS.
  - **Security groups**: Can be associated to container instances.
- **ALB Integration**
  - 📝 Application Load Balancer (ALB) has a direct integration feature with ECS called "port mapping"
    - Allows you to run multiple instances of the same application on the same EC2 machine
      - E.g. containers on port 6789, 9586, 3748 can be exposed on port 80 /443 by application balancer.
  - Use cases:
    - Ability to perform rolling upgrades without impacting application uptime
- **ECS Setup & Config file**
  - Run an EC2 instance, install the ECS agent with ECS config file
    - Or use an ECS-ready Linux AMI (still need to modify config file)
      - Config file is at `/etc/ecs/ecs.config`
          ECS_ENABLE_TASK_IAM_ROLE=true #Enable IAM roles for ECS tasks
        ```
