# EC2 Storage (EBS & EFS & Instance Store)

- **Root Volumes**
  - Root volumes are ephemeral by default i.e. gets deleted when instance is terminated.
  - Both instance store and EFS can be root volume.
    - When you launch an instance, the *root device volume* contains the image used to boot the instance.
    - **EBS** is recommended over **Instance store** as it launches faster and is more consistent.
- **AWS FSx**: 📝EFS for Windows.
  - **Block device mapping** allows block devices to attach to an EC2.
    - Allows you to attach additional EBS volumes during and after launch
      - ❗ Cannot attach instances stores after launching an instance.

## Instance Store

- Actual root volume of some instances, (some come with EBS volumes)
- Cannot be detach / reattached
- Ephemeral (temporary) storage physically attached to the machine
  - ❗ Terminate/stop the instance -> its gone
    - Data survives reboots
- It's not a network drive (as opposed to EBS) so better I/O
- ❗ No managed backups, cannot resize.
- ❗ You can't attach instance store volumes to an instance after you've launched it

## **EFS (Elastic File System)**

- Managed NFS (network file system)
- POSIX compliant
  - POSIX = Portable Operating System Interface for Unix
  - It supports Unix APIs but it's ❗ Linux only
  - 💡 POSIX permissions allows you to restrict access from hosts by user and group
- More expensive (≈ 3x gp2)
- Can be mounted on hundreds of instances
  - ❗ Is not attached, it's mounted!
  - Use ENI (Elastic Network Interface) to reveal EFS (elastic file storage) for multiple different EC2 instances.
  - **Configurations**
      3. Configure a Security Group to allow data traffic on port `2049`
- Can be mounted to on-prem using AWS Direct Connect
  - Allows you to migrate data from on-prem servers to EFS (EFS File Sync) or/and use it for backup solution.

- **Scalability**
  - **Auto-scaling** without provisioning capacity.
- **Availability**
  - **Multi-AZ**: Data is stored across multiple AZ within a region.
    - Each EFS instance in AZ get IP address
- **Connections**: **Multi-region** or **hybrid** through AWS VPN and Inter-Region VPC Peering.
- Uses NFS v4.1 protocol
  
- Configurations:
  - Performance mode
      1. ***General purpose*** (default)
      2. ***Max I/O*** - used when thousands of EC2 are using the EFS - higher latency & more IO.
  - Throughput mode
      1. ***Bursting***: Recommended for most file systems
      2. ***Provisioned***: Use when throughput from bursting is not enough
- Encryption at rest using KMS keys

## **EBS** (Elastic Block Store)

- You can attach to your instances while they run.
  - Persists data but can requires to set deletion on EC2 termination to false
- Can be detached & re-attached.
- ❗ It's locked to an Availability Zone (AZ), must be in same AZ as EC2.
  - 📝To move, you need to first snapshot it.
- Cheaper than EFS.
- Have a provisioned capacity & get billed for all of it (does not better how much you use)
- EBS Volumes are characterized in size, throughput, IOPS (I/O ops per second)
- Throughput is a good metric for HDD (large files, infrequent read/writes) and IOPS for SSD (smaller files, many read & writes)
  - **Throughput**: number of bits read or written per second.
  - **IOPS**: Number of read write operations *(of clusters, not files)* per second
  - **RAID 0** => "Split" gives you higher performance than single EBS.
  - **RAID 1** => "mirror" of your data for extra redundancy.
  - **RAID 10** (RAID 1/0) => array "split" and "mirror" combined.
- **Pricing**
  - You still pay for unattached EBS instances
- **Monitoring**
  - Good metric: queue depth
    - The queue depth is the number of pending I/O requests from your application to your volume
- **Amazon EBS–Optimized instances** uses optimized configuration stack and provides additional & dedicated capacity for EBS I/O

### EBS Volume Types

- **Chart**

  | Attribute | gp2 | io1 | st1 | sc1 |
  |----------:|-----|------|------|------|
  | **Name** | EBS General Purpose SSD  | Provisioned IOPS SSD | Throughput Optimized HDD | Cold HDD |
  | **Summary** | General purpose | Highest performance SSD | Low cost HDD | Lowest cost HDD |
  | **Description** | 📝Balances price and performance | For mission-critical low-latency or high-throughput workloads | For frequently accessed, throughput-intensive workloads | Designed for less frequently accessed workloads |
  | **Storage** | 1 GiB - 16 TiB | 4 GiB - 16 TiB | 500 GiB - 16 TiB | 500 GiB - 16 TiB |
  | **Bursting** | ✔ Small gp2 volumes can burst IOPS to 3000 | ✘ Provisioned (PIOS) | ✔ Max throughput of 500 MiB/s - can burst | ✔ Max throughput of 250 MiB/s - can burst |
  | **Max throughput** | 250 MiB/s | 1,000 MiB/s | 500 MiB/s | 250 MiB/s |
  | **Max IOPS** | 16000 (5,334 GB) | Provisioned! min 100, max 64000 (nitro instances) | 500 | 250 |
  | **Use-cases** | Most workloads e.g. system boot volumes, virtual desktops, low-latency interactive apps, deployment & test environments | More IOPS than GP2 limit, large databases | Streaming workloads requiring fast & consistent throughput at a low price e.g. big data, data warehouses, log processing, apache Kafka |
- ❗ HDD disks (ST1 and SC1) cannot be boot volume i.e. only SSD (GP2 & IO1) can be boot volumes
- **SSD vs HDD**

  | Features | SSD | HDD |
  | -------- | --- | --- |
  | Best for workloads with | **small, random** I/O operations | **large, sequential** I/O operations | Can be used as a bootable volume ? | Yes | No |
  | Use-cases | Transactional workloads: sustained IOPS, large databases | Large streaming workloads: Big data, data warehouses, log processing, **infrequently** accessed data |
  | Cost | moderate / high | low |
  | Dominant performance attribute | IOPS | Throughput MiB/s |
- ❗ Max 300 TiB of aggregate PIOPS per region (provisioned IOPS for `io1`)

### Availability

  - 📝💡 ***EBS backups*** use IO and you shouldn't run them while your application is handling a lot of traffic.
  - 💡Use snapshots or Raid 1 instead for seamless backups.
- **EBS Snapshots**
  - Asynchronous
  - Incremental backups e.g. latest snapshot + changed delta are saved
  - Can be encrypted, and encrypted automatically if it's from an encrypted disk.
  - 💡 Recommended to detach root volume to do snapshot but not necessary
    - Uses IO: ❗ Shouldn't run while your application is handling a lot of traffic.
  - **Share snapshot with other accounts**
    - Modify the permissions on the encrypted snapshot to share it with the specified account.
    - *(If encrypted)* Share the custom key used to encrypt the volume.
  - Constrained to the Region -> 💡 copy to share across region
  - 📝 Stored in S3 (but you won't directly see them)
  - 💡 Snapshots can be automated using **DLM - Amazon Data Lifecycle Manager**
    - **Lifecycle Policy** => Schedule snapshots / deletion of them.
 
### Scalability

- You can now increase capacity (GB & IOPS), or change the volume type **while in use**.
  - No down time when resizing but need to repartition in OS to make space available.
- ❗ You can't increase unlimitedly as EC2 has max IOPS limit of 80.000.
- GB and IOPs goes hand in hand
  - For increasing IOPS you need to increase GB
    - You can't have small volume with very high IOPS
    - You get 3 burst IOPS per 1 GB.
  - However `io1` is an exception where you only IOPS & GB.
    - The maximum ratio of provisioned IOPS to requested volume size (in GiB) is 50:1.

### Volume Encryption

- As default:
  - All snapshots are encrypted
  - All volumes created from the snapshot
  - Not encrypted (in rest) by default
    - In settings, security can enforce "Always encrypted" per region
- A volume can be encrypted during an initial launch or:
  - Create an instance from launching an AMI from an encrypted volume.

- **Snapshots & Encryption**
  - Volumes created from encrypted snapshots are automatically encrypted.
    - Snapshots of encrypted volumes are encrypted
  - Volumes that are created from unencrypted snapshots are automatically unencrypted
  - The encryption happens during snapshot process.
- ❗ No direct way to encrypt an existing unencrypted volume or snapshot
  - You can copy a snapshot & create new volume to encrypt existing unencrypted.
  - ***Encrypt an unencrypted EBS volume***
      1. Create an EBS snapshot of the volume
      2. Encrypt the EBS snapshot (using copy)
      3. Create new EBS volume from the snapshot (The volume will also be encrypted)
      4. You can now attach the encrypted volume to the original instance
