# S3 Integrated Services

## S3 Select

- Pull out only the data you need from an object
- Improve the performance and reduce the cost of applications that need to access data in S3.

## Snowball

- Physical data transport between 80-50 TB to/from S3.
- ***Use cases***: large data cloud migrations, DC decommissions, disaster recovery
  - ðŸ’¡ Use it if data takes longer than a week to upload e.g. > 2TB for 45 Mbps (T3, 269 days), >5TB 100 Mbps (120 days), >60TB 1000 Mbps (12 days).
- Flow

- **Snowball Edge**
  - Snowball Edge add computational capability (e.g. lambda) to the device
- **Snowmobile**
  - If you have more than 100 TB or PBs data
  - Each Snowmobile has 100 PB of capacity (use multiple in parallel)
- ðŸ’¡ Choose based on capacity:
  - 80 TB Snowball has 72 TB usable free space
  - 100 TB Snowball edge has 82 TB usable free space

## Storage Gateway

- ðŸ“Allows you to expose S3 to on-premises.
- ðŸ“ Three types of Storage Gateway:
  - **File gateway** -> S3
    - Store & update files as objects in S3 asynchronously as you change them.
    - Ownership/permissions and timestamps are stored in S3 in the user-metadata of the object.
    - Accessible using the NFS (network file system) and SMB protocol
    - Supports S3 standard, & S3 IA, S3 One Zone IA & Glacier.
    - Bucket access using IAM roles for each File Gateway
    - Most recently used data is cached locally in the file gateway -> Low latency access
    - Can be mounted on many servers
    - ðŸ“ File access / NFS => File Gateway (backed by S3)
  - **Volume gateway** -> EBS
    - Block storage in Amazon S3 with point-in-time backups as compressed Amazon EBS snapshot.
    - Allows you to view S3 bucket as mountable volume
    - Block storage using iSCSI protocol backed by S3
    - Two options:
      - **Cached volumes**: most frequently data are cached on premise on the volumes
      - **Stored volumes**: entire dataset is on premise, scheduled backups to S3 as EBS snapshots
    - ðŸ“ Volumes / Block Storage / iSCSI => Volume gateway (backed by S3 with EBS snapshots)
  - **Tape Gateway** -> Glacier
    - Input: Your existing tape-based processes
    - Output: As virtual tapes (using Virtual Tape Library, i.e. VTL) in S3 or Glacier.
    - Uses iSCSI which is interface & networking standard for linking data storage facilities.
    - ðŸ“ VTL Tape solution / Backup with iSCSI => Tape gateway (backed by S3 and Glacier)
- **Security**: Your data is encrypted at rest by default in S3.
- Flow
  - AWS Console -> Storage Gateway -> Choose gateway type -> Select host platform (VMware / hyper-v / EC2) -> IP address of gateway VM

## Athena

- Serverless service to perform analytics directly against S3 files
- Uses SQL language to query the files
- Has a JDBC / ODBC driver that allows you to connect BI tools to it.
- Charged per query and amount of data scanned
- Supports CSV, JSON, ORC, Avro and Parquet (built on Presto)
- ðŸ’¡Use cases: Business intelligence / analytics / reporting, analyze & query VPC Flow Logs, ELB Logs, CloudTrail trails, etc..
- ðŸ“ Analyze data directly on S3 -> use Athena
- Usage
  1. Go to Athena on Console
  2. Create database with a query
  3. Create table & link to a bucket
      - It's a link so you don't pay anything to have tables
  4. You can then write SQL queries against the table
- Allows you to easily query encrypted data stored in S3 and write encrypted results back.
  - Both, server-side encryption and client-side encryption are supported
