# **Networking - IP Addresses**

- 💡❗ Use private IP whenever possible: Communication using Public, Elastic IP or Elastic Load Balancer inside EC2 network costs Data Transfer changes even in same AZ.
- **Bring Your Own IP Addresses (BYOIP)**
  - You need to create a ROA (**Route Origin Authorization**)
    - A document that you can create that contains the address range, the ASNs that are allowed to advertise the address range, and an expiration date.

## CIDR (IPv4)

- Classless Inter-Domain Routing
- ❗ Max CIDR size in AWS is `/16`
- CIDR has two components:
  - The base IP (`XX.XX.XX.XX`)
    - The base IP represents an IP contained in the range
  - The subnet mask (`/26`)
    - Defines how many bits can change in the IP
    - Basically allows part of the underlying IP to get additional values from the base IP

## Public & Private IP

- Only a specified range of IPs can be used as private IP
      - `10.0.0.0` - `10.255.255.255` (`10.0.0.0/8`) <- in big networks
      - `172.16.0.0` - `172.1.255.255` (`172.16.0.0/12`) <- default AWS one
      - `192.168.0.0` - `192.168.255.255` (`192.168.0.0/16`) <- e.g. home networks
    - AWS registers 5 IP addresses per subnet, see [VPC - Subnets](./6.4.%20Networking%20-%20VPC%20-%20Subnets.md) for more information.

- **Elastic IP**
  - Fixed public IPv4 IP address for attaching to EC2 instances (to their Elastic Network Interfaces).
    - Because when you stop & start an EC2 instance, it'll change its public IP.
  - You own it as long as you don't delete it.
  - You can attach it to a one instance at a time
  - ❗ Max 5 Elastic IP per account (soft limit)
  - 💡 Elastic IP reflects often poor architectural decisions
    - Instead you can:
      - Use a random public IP and register a DNS name to it.
      - Load balancer (best pattern).
  - **Pricing**
    - Elastic IPs are free as long as
      - They are being used by an instance i.e. attached to instance and instance is running.
        - ❗ Amazon will charge you $0.01 per hour for each EIP that you reserve and do not use.
      - The instance has only one Elastic IP address attached to it.
    - ❗ You will be charged if you ever remap an EIP more than 100 times in a month.
