# Infrastructure as Code

### Technology Stack

- **AWS CodePipeline** allows you to automate all steps of the deployment:

    | Step | Name | AWS | Others |
    | ---- | --- | ---- | ------ |
    | 1 | Code | CodeCommit | GitHub, GitLab etc.. |
    | 2 | Build & test | CodeBuild | Jenkins CI, TeamCity etc.. |
    | 3 | Deploy | ElasticBeanstalk, CodeDeploy | Octopus |
    | 4 | Provision | ElasticBeanstalk, CloudFormation | Terraform |

- **CodeDeploy**
  - Two deployment options:
    1. **In-place deployment**: EC2/On-Premises apps are stopped & updated & validated.
    2. **Blue/green deployment**: Using slots (deploy A -> switch to A -> stop B) with minimal downtime and rollback capabilities.
        - **EC2/On-Premises**: Must have one ore more EC2 with tags or ASG
        - **Lambda**
          - **Canary**: Traffic is sifted in two increments, 90% to first version, 10% to second before 100% to second.
          - **Linear**: Traffic is shifted in equal increments with number of minutes e.g. 10% per minute.
          - **All-at-once**: All traffic is shifted at once.
        - **Amazon ECS**: Task set switches

## CloudFormation

  - Can be JSON or YAML.
  - CloudFormation provisions in the *right order* with the *exact configuration* that you specify.
- 💡 Allows re-use the best practices around your company for configuration parameters.
- **Templates**
  - You can upload in S3 and then reference in CloudFormation
  - Update a template
    - Can't edit previous ones.
    - Have to re-upload a new version of the template to AWS.
  - **Building Blocks**
    - Cloud formation template consists of components and helpers:
      - Template components
          1. **Resources**: your AWS resources declared in the template (❗ mandatory)
          2. **Parameters**: the dynamic inputs for your template
              - Allows you to parameterize & prompt inputs while deploying.
          3. **Mappings**: the static variables for your template
          4. **Outputs**: References to what has been created
          5. **Conditionals**: List of conditions to perform resource creation
          6. **Metadata**
      - Template helpers
          1. References (***Logical IDs*** are used to reference resources within the template)
- **Templates**
  - JSON or YAML text file that contains instructions for building out AWS environment
- **Change sets**
  - Before making changes to your resources, you can generate a change set, which is a summary of your proposed changes, e.g. resource A will be deleted.
- **Stacks**
  - The entire environment described by the template and created, updated, and deleted as a single unit
  - Related resources in a template.
    - When you update stack, it updates the resources
  - Can rollback on failure after timeout in minutes.
  - Termination protected with stack from being accidentally deleted.
  - Reusable output information
    - It's output information (key, value, description) can be imported by other stacks by using an unique export/import name.
  - **Stack Sets** lets you create stacks in AWS accounts across regions by using a single AWS CloudFormation template
  - Operations
    - **Deleting a stack** -> deletes every artifact created by CloudFormation
    - **Deploying templates/stacks**
        1. by uploading YAML files directly or referencing to Amazon S3 URL
        2. Use a sample template
        3. Create template in Designer
           - Helps you to see resources & relations
           - Might be good for PowerPoints
      - ❗ **Redeploying a stack deletes old instances.**
    - **Changing a stack**
      - Done using **Stack change sets**
      - Warns you about resources that'll be deleted, modified and added.
      - **Drift**: difference between the expected configuration values and actual deployed.
  - Can deploy Elastic Beanstalk that'll then deploy:
  - E.g. EC2, ALB, ASG, RDS
- **IAM Conditions for CloudFormation**
  - `cloudformation:TemplateURL`: Ensure template in TemplateURL is used for e.g. update/delete.
  - `cloudformation:ResourceTypes`: Specify which types of resources can be created or updated.
  - `cloudformation:StackPolicyURL`
    - **Stack policies** prevents stack resources from unintentionally being updated or deleted during stack updates
    - You define which actions (t.ex. update) are allowed on which resources in a JSON file.

## OpsWorks

- AWS managed service for Chef & Puppet
- They work great with EC2 & On Premise VM
- Alternative to AWS SSM (Systems Manager)
- **OpsWorks stacks**
  - Groups applications into layers depending on Chef recipes

## Systems Manager

- Serverless & free & open-source
- Is built-in in AWS AMIs
  any script from S3 through **Run command**.

### Chef & Puppet

- Help with **managing server configuration as code**
  - Can automate: user accounts, cron, NTP, packages, services
- They leverage "Recipes" or "Manifests"
- Similar to SSM / Beanstalk / CloudFormation but they're open-source tools that work cross-cloud.

## Serverless applications

- Serverless applications are e.g. Lambda, DynamoDB, API Gateway...
- To be order to locally run, debug and easily deploy serverless applications you can use:
  - **AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM)**
    - Open source tool used to package, test, and deploy serverless applications
    - YAML based infrastructure as code.
